[Music]
hello I'm sue McMahon and I'm cookware
de chairwoman's weekly magazine and I'm
going to show you how to make shepherd's
pie
[Music]
the first thing to do for the shepherd's
pie is to prepare the bass so I've got a
tablespoon of light olive oil in the pan
and I'm warming it up and once I can
feel it's hot I'm going to add to the
pan two onions that I've peeled and
chopped and I'm also going to work to
Paris that are games peels and chops
[Music]
and I'm going to leave this cook on a
medium heat for about five to seven
minutes until the vegetables have
softened a little bit so once the
vegetables are softened I'm going to add
to the pan 500 grams of minced lamb and
then I break this down with the spatulas
so that it will cook evenly traditional
shepherd's pie was made using cooked
lamb and it was a way of using up the
meat after a Sunday roast dinner so if
you want to you could use cook lamb chop
finely or mince in this recipe but if
you use cooked lamb just cook it for a
little bit less than I'm doing though so
what's the need to throw a little the
surfaces and going thread around your
tablespoon of plain flour and that will
pick them up the juices that have come
out of the land
and then I'm also going to add two
tablespoons of tomato puree which will
give it a nice color and about once two
tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce and
the saltiness in this helps to enhance
the flavor at the Shepherd I
and I also have 200 milliliters of lamb
stock if you want to you could add a
dash of red wine to this which helps to
give a nice flavor to it and I'm also
going to add about a tablespoon of
chopped thyme so I'm now going to leave
this the simmer for about five minutes
so once I've simmered the lamb I'm now
going to season it and I like quite a
lot of freshly ground black pepper
but I'm going to add just a little bit
of salt because the Worcestershire sauce
is quite salty so I don't want to make
the recipe over salty so I'm going to
mix that in and then I'm going to spoon
this into an ovenproof dish
now for the topping for this I've got
some mashed potato about a kilo of
mashed potato but when I'm doing this at
home I tend to use what other vegetables
I have I think it's really nice my
favorite is a mixture of half potato and
half past nip sometimes I do it with
some carrot in it as well so it makes it
an orange-colored mash so any root
vegetables even celeriac with the potato
makes a nice mesh so I'm going to spoon
this on top and I'm just spreading it
out so it's totally covering the mince
land
I'm just texturing the top very slightly
and I've got it on a baking tray because
if any of the mixture boils out of the
dish when it's in the oven it will fall
onto the baking tray rather than
dirtying the bottom of the oven now this
needs to be baked at 180 degrees
centigrade which is guess mark 4 and it
takes about 30 to 40 minutes or it's
ready when the top is nice and golden
and you can see the filling beginning to
bubble up from around the edges of the
potato so when the pie is ready it
should be nice and golden on the top
this one has bubbled out a bit so it's a
good job that I put it on the baking
tray and that's all ready for serving so
if I scoop them out onto a plate
my favorite with this is baked beans I
actually like them cold with it but it's
also good to serve it with a salad so
that's finished shepherd's pie
[Music]
you